Appendix/Gibbs sampling section (#32)
MrLongbottom/P10-Article: sections/appendix/gibbs_sampling.tex

\subsection{Gibbs Sampling}\label{sec:appendix_gibbs}
The Gibbs sampling algorithm consists of procedures, in which it is run.

> In the following sections, we explain how these procedures have been implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following sections, we explain how these procedures have been implemented:
```

\begin{itemize}
	\item Random Initialization
	\item Gibbs Sampling

> \end{itemize}

Reviewer 2: 'in which it is run' sounds weird, like you're saying an algorithm runs inside procedures.
here is one possible change.
```suggestion
The Gibbs Sampling algorithm consists two procedures: Random Initialization and Gibbs Sampling.
In the following sections, we explain how these procedures have been implemented.
```

\subsubsection{Random Initialization}

> Before a Gibbs sampling algorithm can run, it need to be randomly initialized with topics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before a Gibbs sampling algorithm can run, word occurrences need to be randomly initialized with topics.
```

To do this, we iterate over each word within each document and assign a random topic for it.

> This procedure is shown in \autoref{lst:randomInit}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This procedure is shown in \autoref{lst:randomInit}.
```

\begin{lstlisting}[language=Python, caption=Random Initialization,label={lst:randomInit}]
import numpy as np

def rand_initialize(documents: List[np.ndarray]):
	wt_assignment = []
	for doc in documents:
		curr_doc = []
		for word in doc:
			# Construct the topic distribution
			pz = _conditional_distribution()
			
			# Draw a new topic and assign it
			t = np.random.multinomial(1, pz).argmax()
			curr_doc.append(t)
			
			# Increase the topic counts
			increase_count()
		wt_assignment.append(curr_doc)
	return wt_assignment

> \end{lstlisting}

Reviewer: Hvis vi vil undgå at have kode der går over 2 sider kan vi f.eks. sætte dem i minipages.

Reviewer 2: det lyder som en god idé

> Various parameters are left out to simply the code listing of our initialization method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Various parameters are left out to simplify the code listing of our initialization method.
```

> Various parameters are left out to simply the code listing of our initialization method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Various parameters are left out to simplify the code listing of our initialization method.

```

The \emph{\_conditional\_distribution()} function creates a distribution of topics based on the current word.

> It is based on \autoref{eq:gibbs_eq}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is based on \autoref{eq:gibbs_eq}.
```

> It is based on \autoref{eq:gibbs_eq}

Reviewer: En kilde til hvor den originalt er fra ville være godt. Kan ikke huske hvad den hed, men den citeres vel i author-topic artiklen.

\begin{equation}\label{eq:gibbs_eq}
	\begin{split}
		P(Z_{d,n} = k |z_{-dn}, \alpha, \lambda) = \\
		\underbrace{\frac{n_{d,k} + \alpha_{k}}{\sum_{i}^{K} n_{d,i} + \alpha_i}}_{Doc-topic} \times
		\underbrace{\frac{v_{k, w_{d,n}} + \lambda_{w_{d,n}}}{\sum_{i} v_{k,i} + \lambda_i}}_{Topic-word}
	\end{split}
\end{equation}

> where $n_{d,k}$ is the number of times document $d$ uses by topic $k$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where $n_{d,k}$ is the number of times document $d$ uses topic $k$.
```

$v_{k,w}$ is the number of times topic $k$ uses word $w$.
$\alpha_k$ and $\lambda_w$ is the Dirichlet parameter for the document-topic and topic-word distribution, respectively.

> The doc-topic part of the equation describes how likely topic $t$ appearing in document $d$ and the second part describes how likely which words are most probable in $t$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The doc-topic part of the equation describes how likely topic $t$ appearing in document $d$ is, and the second part describes which words are most probable in topic $t$.
```

> The doc-topic part of the equation describes how likely topic $t$ appearing in document $d$ and the second part describes how likely which words are most probable in $t$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first fraction describes how likely topic $t$ appearing in document $d$ and the second fraction describes how likely which words are most probable in $t$.

```

> Following the code in \autoref{lst:randomInit}, as we initialize, the words get higher probability of clustering together since, we update the counts every time, we look at a new word in line 16.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following the code in \autoref{lst:randomInit}, as we initialize, the words get higher probability of clustering together, since we update the counts every time, we look at a new word in line 16.
```

\subsubsection{Gibbs Sampling}
Continuing the analogy from before, we can start to investigate the Gibbs sampling method itself, where we iterate over each word in every document and draw a new topic based on the given topic distribution.

> As in \autoref{lst:randomInit}, the code has been simplified a tiny bit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As in \autoref{lst:randomInit}, the code has been simplified.
```

\begin{lstlisting}[language=Python, caption=Gibbs Sampling Method,label={lst:gibbsSampling}]
import numpy as np

def gibbs_sampling(documents: List[np.ndarray],
	   doc_topic_dist: np.ndarray,
	   doc_topic_count: np.ndarray,
	   topic_word_dist: np.ndarray,
	   topic_word_count: np.ndarray,
	   wt_assignment: List[List[int]]):

	for d_index, doc in documents:
		for w_index, word in enumerate(doc):
			# Get the topic of the current word
			topic = wt_assignment[d_index][w_index]
			
			# Decrease the topic count
			decrease_count()
			
			# Sample a new topic
			pz = _conditional_distribution()
			topic = np.random.multinomial(1, pz).argmax()
			
			# Assign topic to the current word
			wt_assignment[d_index][w_index] = topic
			
			# And increase the topic count
			increase_count()
\end{lstlisting}
The Gibbs sampling method is very similar to the random initialization method in \autoref{lst:randomInit}, but with a few extra additions. 

> Now we introduce the \emph{decrease\_count()} which decreases the topic count for both word and documents, as the \emph{increase\_count()} increases them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we introduce the \emph{decrease\_count()} which decreases the topic count for both words and documents, as the \emph{increase\_count()} increases them.
```

The sampling explained in \autoref{lst:randomInit} is the same.

> On line 13, we get the current topic for the given word and on line 23 we assign the newly drawn topic to that word.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On line 13, we get the current topic for the given word and on line 23 we assign a newly drawn topic to that word.
```

\subsection{Gibbs Sampling}\label{sec:appendix_gibbs}

> The Gibbs Sampling algorithm consists two procedures: Random Initialization and Gibbs Sampling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Gibbs Sampling algorithm consists of two procedures: Random Initialization and Gibbs Sampling.
```

	return wt_assignment
\end{lstlisting}

Various parameters are left out to simplify the code listing of our initialization method.
The \emph{\_conditional\_distribution()} function creates a distribution of topics based on the current word.

> It is based on \autoref{eq:gibbs_eq}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is based on \autoref{eq:gibbs_eq}~\cite{author_topic_2012}.
```
Hvis vi vil have kilden til hvor den her ligning er fra. I den originale tekst "Finding scientific topics" ser ligningen alligevel lidt anderledes ud.

		\underbrace{\frac{v_{k, w_{d,n}} + \lambda_{w_{d,n}}}{\sum_{i} v_{k,i} + \lambda_i}}_{Topic-word}
	\end{split}
\end{equation}
where $n_{d,k}$ is the number of times document $d$ uses topic $k$.
$v_{k,w}$ is the number of times topic $k$ uses word $w$.
$\alpha_k$ and $\lambda_w$ is the Dirichlet parameter for the document-topic and topic-word distribution, respectively.

> The doc-topic part of the equation describes how likely topic $t$ appearing in document $d$ and the second part describes how likely which words are most probable in $t$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first fraction describes how likely topic $t$ appearing in document $d$ is, and the second fraction describes which words are most probable in topic $t$.
```
Hvis man kombinerer min og @MrLongbottom's.
